# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`intermapper`](#intermapper): Manages the InterMapper network monitoring package by Fortra

#### Private Classes

* `intermapper::install`: Manages InterMapper package installation
* `intermapper::nagios`: Manages Nagios plugin links for InterMapper
* `intermapper::repo`: Manages InterMapper package repository
* `intermapper::service`: Manages the main InterMapper service
* `intermapper::service_extra`: Manages the InterMapper DataCenter and InterMapper Flows services

### Defined types

#### Private Defined types

* `intermapper::icon`: Install a new Intermapper icon into Intermapper's Custom Icons directory.
* `intermapper::mibfile`: Install a new SNMP MIB into Intermapper's MIB Files directory.
* `intermapper::nagios_plugin_link`: Symlink a Nagios probe into the Intermapper Tools directory.
* `intermapper::probe`: Install a new Intermapper probe into Intermapper's Probes directory.
* `intermapper::tool`: Install a new Intermapper tool into Intermapper's Tools directory.

## Classes

### <a name="intermapper"></a>`intermapper`

This module installs and configures InterMapper, a network monitoring tool,
along with its optional DataCenter and Flows services. It can also manage
symlinks to Nagios plugins for use in InterMapper probes.

#### Examples

##### Basic usage

```puppet
include intermapper
```

##### With repository management (Debian/Ubuntu)

```puppet
class { 'intermapper':
  repo_manage => true,
}
```

##### With Nagios integration

```puppet
class { 'intermapper':
  nagios_manage      => true,
  nagios_plugins_dir => '/usr/lib64/nagios-plugins',
}
```

##### Custom package and service configuration

```puppet
class { 'intermapper':
  package_ensure => 'latest',
  service_ensure => 'running',
  vardir         => '/var/opt/helpsystems/intermapper',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `intermapper` class:

* [`basedir`](#-intermapper--basedir)
* [`vardir`](#-intermapper--vardir)
* [`owner`](#-intermapper--owner)
* [`group`](#-intermapper--group)
* [`package_ensure`](#-intermapper--package_ensure)
* [`package_manage`](#-intermapper--package_manage)
* [`package_name`](#-intermapper--package_name)
* [`package_provider`](#-intermapper--package_provider)
* [`package_source`](#-intermapper--package_source)
* [`service_ensure`](#-intermapper--service_ensure)
* [`service_manage`](#-intermapper--service_manage)
* [`service_imdc_manage`](#-intermapper--service_imdc_manage)
* [`service_imflows_manage`](#-intermapper--service_imflows_manage)
* [`service_imdc_ensure`](#-intermapper--service_imdc_ensure)
* [`service_imflows_ensure`](#-intermapper--service_imflows_ensure)
* [`service_name`](#-intermapper--service_name)
* [`service_imdc_name`](#-intermapper--service_imdc_name)
* [`service_imflows_name`](#-intermapper--service_imflows_name)
* [`service_provider`](#-intermapper--service_provider)
* [`service_status_cmd`](#-intermapper--service_status_cmd)
* [`service_has_restart`](#-intermapper--service_has_restart)
* [`nagios_ensure`](#-intermapper--nagios_ensure)
* [`nagios_manage`](#-intermapper--nagios_manage)
* [`nagios_plugins_dir`](#-intermapper--nagios_plugins_dir)
* [`nagios_link_plugins`](#-intermapper--nagios_link_plugins)
* [`repo_manage`](#-intermapper--repo_manage)
* [`repo_ensure`](#-intermapper--repo_ensure)
* [`repo_url`](#-intermapper--repo_url)
* [`repo_key`](#-intermapper--repo_key)
* [`repo_key_source`](#-intermapper--repo_key_source)
* [`repo_release`](#-intermapper--repo_release)
* [`repo_repos`](#-intermapper--repo_repos)

##### <a name="-intermapper--basedir"></a>`basedir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The base directory where InterMapper is installed. Defaults to /usr/local
by the package. Useful if the package has been relocated.

Default value: `'/usr/local'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--vardir"></a>`vardir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The directory that contains the InterMapper_Settings directory. Defaults to
/var/opt/helpsystems/intermapper for InterMapper 6.6+ following Linux File
System Hierarchy standards.

Default value: `'/var/opt/helpsystems/intermapper'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--owner"></a>`owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

The owner of any files that this module installs.

Default value: `'intermapper'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--group"></a>`group`

Data type: `String[1]`

The group of any files that this module installs.

Default value: `'intermapper'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--package_ensure"></a>`package_ensure`

Data type: `String[1]`

Can be set to a specific version of InterMapper, or to 'latest' to ensure
the package is always upgraded.

Default value: `'present'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--package_manage"></a>`package_manage`

Data type: `Boolean`

If false, the package will not be managed by this class.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-intermapper--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `Variant[String[1], Array[String[1]]]`

The name (or names) of the package to be installed. OS-specific defaults
are provided via Hiera data.

##### <a name="-intermapper--package_provider"></a>`package_provider`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Package provider to use. OS-specific defaults are provided via Hiera data.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-intermapper--package_source"></a>`package_source`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Optional package source location for custom installations.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_ensure"></a>`service_ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::Service`

Can be any valid value for the ensure parameter for a service resource type.

Default value: `'running'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_manage"></a>`service_manage`

Data type: `Boolean`

If false, none of the services are managed. Disables service_extra_manage.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_imdc_manage"></a>`service_imdc_manage`

Data type: `Boolean`

Controls whether the extra service imdc is managed. Dependent on
service_manage being true.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_imflows_manage"></a>`service_imflows_manage`

Data type: `Boolean`

Controls whether the extra service imflows is managed. Dependent on
service_manage being true.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_imdc_ensure"></a>`service_imdc_ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::Service`

If service_manage is true, the InterMapper DataCenter services are set to
this value.

Default value: `'stopped'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_imflows_ensure"></a>`service_imflows_ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::Service`

If service_manage is true, the IMFlows services are set to this value.

Default value: `'stopped'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the main service to manage. OS-specific defaults are provided
via Hiera data.

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_imdc_name"></a>`service_imdc_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the InterMapper DataCenter service to manage.

Default value: `'imdc'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_imflows_name"></a>`service_imflows_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the IMFlows service to manage.

Default value: `'imflows'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_provider"></a>`service_provider`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Service provider to use. OS-specific defaults are provided via Hiera data.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_status_cmd"></a>`service_status_cmd`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Custom status command. OS-specific defaults are provided via Hiera data.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-intermapper--service_has_restart"></a>`service_has_restart`

Data type: `Boolean`

Controls the behavior of the service restart logic in Puppet. OS-specific
defaults are provided via Hiera data.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-intermapper--nagios_ensure"></a>`nagios_ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent', 'missing']`

If nagios_manage is true, this controls whether Nagios resources are added
or removed. Requires nagios_plugins_dir to be set unless nagios_ensure is
set to 'missing' or 'absent'.

Default value: `'present'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--nagios_manage"></a>`nagios_manage`

Data type: `Boolean`

If false, no Nagios resources are managed.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-intermapper--nagios_plugins_dir"></a>`nagios_plugins_dir`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Location on the system where Nagios plugins typically live. This variable
must be set if nagios_manage is true and nagios_ensure is 'present'.
Example: /usr/lib64/nagios-plugins on RHEL/CentOS.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-intermapper--nagios_link_plugins"></a>`nagios_link_plugins`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

A list of plugin names that should be symlinked from nagios_plugins_dir
into $vardir/InterMapper_Settings/Tools for use by InterMapper probe
definitions.

##### <a name="-intermapper--repo_manage"></a>`repo_manage`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, manage the InterMapper package repository. Only supported on
Debian-based systems using APT.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-intermapper--repo_ensure"></a>`repo_ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present', 'absent']`

Whether the repository should be present or absent. Only effective when
repo_manage is true.

Default value: `'present'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--repo_url"></a>`repo_url`

Data type: `Stdlib::HTTPUrl`

The URL of the InterMapper package repository. Defaults to the official
Fortra repository.

Default value: `'https://hsdownloads.helpsystems.com/intermapper/debian'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--repo_key"></a>`repo_key`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

The GPG key ID for the repository. Optional if repo_key_source is provided.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-intermapper--repo_key_source"></a>`repo_key_source`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::HTTPUrl]`

The URL to fetch the GPG key from. Optional if repo_key is provided.
Defaults to Fortra's official signing key.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-intermapper--repo_release"></a>`repo_release`

Data type: `String[1]`

The release name for the repository. Defaults to '/' for InterMapper's
flat repository structure.

Default value: `'/'`

##### <a name="-intermapper--repo_repos"></a>`repo_repos`

Data type: `String[1]`

The repository components to enable. Defaults to 'main'.

Default value: `'main'`

